CMF 1.0beta:  Known Issues

  Overview

    This document describes known issues with the beta release of
    the Content Management Framework (CMF), version 1.0.
    For more information on the CMF, please see the "website",
       http://cmf.zope.org.

  Package and Module Name Changes

    In order to improve the future maintainability of the CMF,
    and as part of the "rebranding" of the product from "Portal
    Toolkit" to "Content Management Framework", we have moved the
    code base to a new set of packages:

      'CMF' -- the "top-level" package, replaces 'ZopePTK'.

      'CMFCore' -- provides essential interfaces and services of
        the framework.  All CMF sites will use this package;
        most will not replace the services it provides.  Most
        modules in this package came from the old 'PTKBase'
        package.

      'CMFDefault' -- provides a set of content objects and
        services which allow construction of a useful CMF site
        "out of the box";  while many sites will use these
        objects directly, many will extend or replace them.  Most
        modules in this package came from the old 'PTKDemo'
        package.

      'CMFTopic' -- provides a new, "add-in" content object, the
        Topic.  Topics represent "canned" catalog queries, and
        are useful for presenting "logical collections" of
        content, based on common metadata.

  CVS Changes

    Until this release, the "canonical" CVS repository for the
    PTK/CMF has been on the public CVS mirror, cvs.zope.org.
    This placement has been somewhat problematic:  because all
    the *other* CVS code is replicated from Digital Creations'
    internal CVS repository, tags and branches created on PTK/CMF
    files tended to get "forgotten" during the synchronization.
    Going forward, we will keep the CMF repository alongside the
    main Zope repository, and replicate it to the public mirror.

  Migrating Existing PTK Sites

    The changes to package and module names (mentioned above)
    have significant impacts for existing PTK sites:  instances
    created from classes defined in 'PTKBase' or 'PTKDemo' will
    need to be "re-seated" as instances of their cognates in
    'CMFCore' or 'CMFDefault'.  In the past, we have arranged to
    do such reseating "in place";  for this change, however, we
    plan not to require a "copying" migration, in order to remove
    the need to maintain the backward-compatibility cruft
    required by the in-place strategy.
    
    We will provide a script shortly to aid this migration (in
    fact, it will be the script which we use to migrate the
    "dogbowl" site this week.
